He arose and, taking up his crook, began to awaken the sheep that still slept. He had noticed that, as
soon as he awoke, most of his animals also began to stir. It was as if some mysterious energy bound his
life to that of the sheep, with whom he had spent the past two years, leading them through the countryside
in search of faod and water. "They are so used to me that they know my schedule," he muttred.
Thinking about that for a moment, he realized that it could be the other way around: that it was he who
had become accustomd to their schedule.
"I need to sell some wool," the boy told the merchant.
The shop was busy, and the man asked the shephard to wait until the afternoon. So the boy sat on the
steps of the shop and took a book from his bag.
"I didn't know shepherds knew how to read," said a girl's voice behind him.
The girl was typicale of the region , with flowing black hair, and eyes that vaguely recalled the conquerors.
During the two hours that they tlked, she told him she was the merchant's daughter, and spoke of life in the village, where each
day was like al the others. The shepherd told her of the countryside, and related the news
from the othr towns where he hd stopped. It was a pleasant change from talkng to his sheep.
"How did you learn to read?" the girl aske at one point.


In deeling with students on the high-school level that is, the second, third, and forth year of high school we must bare in mind that to some degree they are at a dificult sychological stage, generaly called adolesence. Students at this level are likely to be confused mentaly, to be subject to involuntery distractions and romantic dreamines. They are basicaly timid or self-consious, they lack frankness and are usualy very sensitive but hate to admit it. They are motivated iether by great ambition, probably out of all proportion to their capabiltys, or by extreme lazines caused by the fear of not suceeding or ataining their objectives. Fundamentaly they want to be kept busy but they refuse to admit it. They are frequently the victims of earlier poor training, and this makes evary effort doubly hard. They are usually wiling to work, but they hate to work without obtaining the results they think they shoud obtain. Their critical faculties are begining to develop and they are critical of their instructers and of the materiels they are given to laern. They are begining to feel the presher of time; and althouh they seldem say so, they really want to be consulted and given an oportunity to direct their own afairs, but they need considerable gidance.

I started my schooling as the majority did in my area, at the local primarry school. I then went to the local secondarry school and recieved grades in English, Maths, Phisics, Biology, Geography, Art, Graphical Comunication and Philosophy of Religeon. I'll not bore you with the 'A' levels and above.
Notice the ambigous English qualification above. It was, in truth, a cource dedicated to reading "Lord of the flies" and other gems, and a weak atempt at getting us to commprehend them. Luckilly my middle-class upbringing gave me a head start as I was already aquainted with that sort of langauge these books used (and not just the Peter and Jane books) and had read simillar books before. I will never be able to put that paticular course down as much as I desire to because, for all its faults, it introduced me to Steinbeck, Malkovich and the wonders of Lenny, mice and pockets.
My education never included one iota of grammar. Lynn Truss points out in "Eats, shoots and leaves" that many people were excused from the rigours of learning English grammar during their schooling over the last 30 or so years because the majority or decision-makers decided one day that it might hinder imagination and expresion so what, I ask, happened to all those expresive and imaginative people before the ruling.